Update "Our content delivery network (CDN)" page (#2305)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/cdn.html.md

- [CDN configuration](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config/)
- [CDN config secrets](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config-secrets)

These are deployed to [integration][integration_cdn], [staging][staging_cdn] and [production][production_cdn].

> Some configuration isn't scripted, such as logging. The www, bouncer and assets services sends logs to S3 and stream them to `monitoring-1`. These logging endpoints are configured directly in the Fastly UI. There is [documentation](/manual/query-cdn-logs.html) on how to query the CDN logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some configuration isn't scripted, such as logging. The www, bouncer and assets services send logs to S3 and stream them to `monitoring-1`. These logging endpoints are configured directly in the Fastly UI. There is [documentation on how to query the CDN logs](/manual/query-cdn-logs.html).
```

Author: Much better link - thanks for the suggestion :thumbs:

[integration_cdn]: https://deploy.integration.publishing.service.gov.uk/job/Deploy_CDN/
[staging_cdn]: https://deploy.staging.publishing.service.gov.uk/job/Deploy_CDN/
[production_cdn]: https://deploy.publishing.service.gov.uk/job/Deploy_CDN/

## Fastly Caching

> The main www.gov.uk cache is [Varnish](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/2.1/index.html), which Fastly run for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main www.gov.uk cache is [Varnish](https://varnish-cache.org/docs/2.1/index.html), which Fastly runs for us.
```

Author: 🔍  😄

Varnish lets us configure our caching logic with VCL (Varnish config language).

> It also lets us do fancy things, like [only allowing connections to staging from permitted IPs](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config/blob/master/vcl_templates/www.vcl.erb#L202), [forcing SSL](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config/blob/master/vcl_templates/www.vcl.erb#L222) and [blocking IP addresses](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config/blob/master/vcl_templates/www.vcl.erb#L208), among other things.

Reviewer: Is it worth linking to a specific commit hash rather than `master`, as this is likely to change again in future?

Author: Good idea! I've pointed it at the latest commit, since these are cited as examples and it doesn't matter if they go a bit out of date.

< Vary: Accept-Encoding, Accept-Encoding
```

See the Varnish/Fastly docs for what these mean. Check out the Fastly [debugging guide](https://docs.fastly.com/guides/debugging/checking-cache#using-curl) for more details on testing.

## Fastly's IP ranges

Fastly publish their cache node [IP address ranges as JSON from their API][fastly_ips]. We use these IP addresses in 2 places:

- Origin has [firewall rules][] in place so that only our office and Fastly can connect.
- Our [Fastly Varnish config][vcl_config] restricts HTTP purges to specific IP addresses (otherwise anyone would be able to purge the cache).

We have [a Jenkins job "Check CDN IP Ranges"][check-cdn-ip-ranges] which will start to fail if our Fastly IPs don't match the IPs returned from the Fastly API. If you see this alert, you can [let Reliability Engineering know][raise-with-re] and they will update our list of Fastly IPs to match the ones listed by Fastly.

> Updating the firewall rules in Carrenza with new Fastly IPs used to be done by committing the change to the govuk-provisioning repo and to then deploy the firewall through a jenkins job. This process is broken at the moment since the code base has diverged from the state of the firewall, while this is remedied we have to add the new rules manually, this is how to do it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updating the firewall rules in Carrenza with new Fastly IPs used to be done by committing the change to the govuk-provisioning repo and to then deploy the firewall through a jenkins job. This process is broken at the moment since the code base has diverged from the state of the firewall. While this is being remedied, we have to add the new rules manually; this is how to do it:
```

Author: Done ✅

[firewall rules]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-provisioning/blob/master/vcloud-edge_gateway/vars/production_carrenza_vars.yaml
[vcl_config]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config/
[check-cdn-ip-ranges]: https://deploy.publishing.service.gov.uk/job/Check_CDN_IP_Ranges/

> [raise-with-re]: https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/raising-issues-with-reliability-engineering.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[raise-with-re]: /manual/raising-issues-with-reliability-engineering.html
```

Links to dev docs tend to not have the domain in them. (We should do the same below).

Author: I've corrected for both links.

[vcd-cli]: https://github.com/vmware/vcd-cli
[carrenza-vpn]: https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/connect-to-vcloud-director.html#connecting-with-cisco-anyconnect

## Banning IP addresses at the CDN edge

We occasionally decide to ban an IP address at our CDN edge if they exhibit the following behaviour:

- not respecting [our robots.txt directives][robots]
- repeatedly receiving 429 (rate limit) error responses from origin and not slowing down
- making suspicious requests like attempting SQL injection queries

[robots]: https://www.gov.uk/robots.txt

> Banning IPs shouldn't be taken lightly as IP address can be shared my multiple user devices and the user behind an IP address can change over time, so there's always a chance that we may block a legitimate user when we ban IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Banning IPs shouldn't be taken lightly as IP address can be shared by multiple user devices and the user behind an IP address can change over time, so there's always a chance that we may block a legitimate user.
```

Author: Done 👍

You can change the list of banned IP addresses by modifying the [YAML config file][ip_ban_config] and [deploying the configuration][ip_ban_deploy].

[ip_ban_config]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-cdn-config-secrets/blob/master/fastly/dictionaries/config/ip_address_blacklist.yaml
[ip_ban_deploy]: https://deploy.publishing.service.gov.uk/job/Update_CDN_Dictionaries/build

## Bouncer's Fastly service

> A Fastly CDN service can normally handle up to 1000 domains (this limit was undocumented).

Reviewer: I assume it still is? And if it isn't, we should just remove the parentheses:

```suggestion
A Fastly CDN service can normally handle up to 1000 domains (this limit is undocumented).
```

Author: Hmm, not sure if it still is or not as I don't have access to the ZenDesk ticket about it. I've made the change as it makes more sense.
